>> Sean Larkin: Even with all these
modules like any library that you pull
from mpm, like I said, people can just
choose whatever the heck they want.
They can ship any module format,
it doesn't matter, there is no right or
wrong way.
And I'm just talking about JavaScript,
there's other preprocessors for
CSS and HTML.
I mean, assets and so it wouldn't even
just thinking about this in retrospect.
We now need something that not only lets
us write modules, but we need something
that lets us support any module format,
at least until we can get to ESM, right?
That can handle resources and
other assets at the same time.
And so wouldn't it be nice that,
let's talk about Webpack.
[LAUGH] This is where
kinda Webpack was born.
Webpack is a module bundler.
So you might be like, Sean,
what are you talking about?
Module bundler lets you
write any module format.
It doesn't have to be any, but for us,
for Webpack, it's that you can require or
use anymore module format and
it'll allow those to work in the browser.
That's the simplest format for a bundler.
On top of that, Webpack supports code
splitting or static async bundling,
where you can create separately
lazy lot of bundles at build time.
Nothing is dynamic and so then,
that way you have all these extra
optimizations that you can leverage.
And there's just a ridiculous,
ridiculously large ecosystem for Webpack.
Today, it is the most performant way,
if you want to write the most
performant application or
you want to set canonical standards.
You need to be using Webpack today.
It's why Microsoft chooses it for
all of it's top 1,000 Alexa websites.
It allows us to be incredibly flexible,
and
do any sort of custom workflow and
makes it possible.
And so, I also want to jump into a quick
story which I think is super valuable.
So how did Webpack get created?
I'm just gonna pull again
a [INAUDIBLE] for Webpack.
So github.com/webpac/webpac and
what some people don't realize and
I didn't even realize this at first.
So the story is in 2012,
a gentleman in Newberg,
Germany name Tobias Koppers had
to do a thesis for his masters.
And he had worked his full
time C# developer and
he had worked with Google Web Toolkit for
some time, which had this
feature called code splitting, and
I'm gonna talk about it in day two.
But there is this,
he had never written a web application.
And he was tasked with for
his thesis to write a web app,
and so he wanted to find
a library that he could use.
And so he went,
he found this modules.webmake,
[LAUGH] and so modules.webmake
is also a bundler, that I think,
it doesn't predate browser five,
but it came slightly afterwards.
Let me pull, go down the bottom again.
There's, well essentially, Tobias wanted
to have this opportunity to provide code
splitting before Bundler, and so
he opened an issue on this project and
said hey
>> Sean Larkin: [LAUGH] Hey,
there's this really neat
feature called code splitting.
Hey, you can totally do this.
It's totally possible.
This would be how you do it.
He proposed this issue, people are like,
hey, that's a great idea, back in the day.
And Medicue is like,
it's probably nothing we can add.
And then Tobias was totally like,
okay, you could totally do this.
And then, just kind of, I would say argue,
they just discussed back and
forth, so he's like, okay,
I just implemented it but
I had to rewrite some stuff from scratch
and mind you this is 2012, 2012.
And then you see, okay,
I moved this to webpack/webpack.
So Tobias is the original
author of Webpack, and
essentially it was born as a fork
of modules webmake to add code
splitting as a commit number one,
commit number zero feature.
And so, Tobias has never worked
on a web application in its
entire life which I will
think is kinda cool.
But it is insane too, he's so smart.
But yes, he has done a little pet but
he's never worked on web apps
which I find so fascinating.
But yes,
this is how Webpack was born in 2012.
And it wasn't until 2015, hen Pete Hunt,
does anybody know who Pete Hunt is or
there is a video.
If you just search
Oz Con West 2015 Pete Hunt,
you'll find a video where Pete Hunt
was working at Instagram at the time.
And introduces to
the world how they choose
to bundle their react
applications with Webpack.
And from there Webpack explodes.
It was at a huge conference,
it was basically,
used by Facebook even though it's
not Facebook core, it's Instagram.
And nobody knew who's this random
German guy working on this project.
And really at this time,
Tobias was really only spending about
five hours a week on the project.
But then, Dan Abramov is, probably?
[LAUGH] Dan, he's a good guy.
Dan came around at a react conf,
and basically wanted to know,
so Dan was researching, so stack.
You can just search, stack overflow
Dan Abramov, this is the best.
Hot module replacement.
So then in two years later,
Dan Abramov posts like how cool is that?
You look at where people
started from till today.
He basically, what the heck is this hot
module replacement that was in Webpack.
It was kinda an out of th feature and
he's like, I don't know what this is.
Nobody knows what this is.
The Webpack1 docks were awful.
And so, Tobias jumps on and
describes it from a very complex.
He gives the whole.
It was a great answer!
I mean look, the thing's got like,
that's probably all of Tobias's points
on Stack Overflow is from this question.
But he talked about how it works and
what makes it so cool.
You can live reload without
ever refreshing the browser.
[LAUGH]
I love it!
This is some of my favorite parts
about how Webpack has grown.
So Dan took this information and
this is what created redux.
This is what created react top loader.
This moment right here, and so,
when Dan showcased this to the world at,
what was it, React Con or
React Rally 2015 or 2014, Webpack exploded
in an insane proportion, and basically
got adopted by the React ecosystem.
Even though Facebook still today
doesn't use it themselves,
this is where Webpack's popularity
came from, two talks at conferences.
And of course things kinda
changed once I started joining.
I got the angular ecosystem involved and
then other people started realizing, wait,
maybe we should build our
framework on top of Webpack.
So view JS came around, and
took all of China by storm.
But, so I could go on and
on about that forever.
It's a really interesting
little thing to think about.
Webpack was actually been around,
some people complain, there's so
much churn in JavaScript, I'm like.
We've been around for five years.
It's been around in the ecosystem for
five years.
14 million downloads a month today.